was
e e
got for
[Music]
the
9,6 and2nd meeting of the Security
Council is called to
order the provisional agenda for this
meeting is the situation in the Middle
East the agenda is
adopted in accordance with rule 37 of
the council's provisional rules of
procedure I invite the representatives
of the Islamic Republic of Iran Israel
and Syrian Arab Republic to participate
in this
meeting it is so
decided the security Council will now
begin his consideration of item two of
the agenda I warmly welcome the
Secretary General his Excellency Antonio
Gutierrez and give him the
floor Madame President
excellencies the Middle East is on the
brink the people of the region are
confronting a real danger of a
devastating fullscale
conflict now is the time to diffuse and
deescalate now is the time for maximum
restraint this emergency session has
been convened upon an urgent request by
the permanent representative of Israel
who noted in his letter dated 13 April
to the president of the security Council
that Iran had launched and I quote a
direct attack from within its territory
of more than 200 uavs cruise missiles
and ballistic missiles towards Israel in
clear violation of the UN Charter and
international law end
quote yesterday the permanent
representative of the Islamic Republic
Republic of Iran also addressed a letter
to the president of the security Council
stating that and I quote in the late
hours of 13 April
2024 the Islamic Republic of Iran
carried out a series of military strikes
on Israeli military objectives and
quote he stated that the action was
taken and I quote in the exercise of
Iran's inherent right to
self-defense is outlined in article 51
of the the charter of the United Nations
and in response to the Israeli recurring
military aggressions particularly its
armed detect on 1 April 2024 against
Iranian diplomatic premises and
quote according to the latest reports
Iran launched hundreds of drones and
missiles from its territory towards
Israel with most
intercepted several missiles reportedly
struck within his Israeli territory one
of which damaged an Israeli military
facility in the south of the country and
overall a few civilians were
injured Madame president when the nature
of the attack became clear I stated the
following last night and I
quote I strongly condemned the Syria's
escalation represented by the large
scale attack launched on Israel by the
Islam Republic of Iran this evening and
I call for an immediate cessation of
these hostilities end
quote I remind all member states that
the charter of the United Nations
prohibits the use of force against the
territorial Integrity or political
independence of any state or in any
other manner inconsistent with the
purposes of the United
Nations furthermore the principle of
inviability of diplomat IC and Consular
premises and personnel must be respected
in all cases in accordance with
international law as I stated when
condemning the 1 April attack on the
Iranian Consulate in
Damascus Madame President it's time to
step back from the
brink it's vital to avoid any action
that could lead to major military
confrontations on multiple fronts in the
Middle
East civilians are already bearing the
brunt and paying the highest price and
we have a shared
responsibility to actively engage all
parties concerned to prevent further
escalation as the friendly relations
Declaration of 1970 States acts of
reprisal involving the use of force are
bared under international
law we have a shared
responsibility to secure an immediate
human humanitarian Seas fire in Gaza the
immediate and unconditional release of
all hostages and unimpeded delivery of
humanitarian Aid we have a shared
responsibility to stop violence in the
occupied West Bank deescalate the
situation along the blue line and
reestablish safe navigation in the Red
Sea we have a shared responsibility to
work for
peace Regional and indeed Global Peace
and security are being undermined by the
hour neither the region nor the world
can afford more war thank
you I thank the Secretary General for
his briefing I now give the floor to
those council members who wish to make
statements I pass the floor to
Guana thank you Madame President I thank
Secretary General gutes for his briefing
and acknowledge the participation of the
permanent representative of Iran Syria
and Israel in today's
meeting Guyana is alarmed over the
recent escalation of tensions between
Israel and Iran especially in a region
that is already experiencing intense
conflicts we urge the parties to
exercise maximum restraint to desist
from launching further retaliatory
attacks and to seek the path of Peace
any further attacks will have
devastating region-wide consequences and
also for the wider International
Community the world cannot afford
another War and the Middle East
certainly cannot afford afford another
War the attack on Iran's diplomatic
facility in Damascus earlier this month
and Iran's attacks on Israel yesterday
have only served to heighten tensions in
the region we urge the parties to abide
strictly with their Charter obligations
and to avoid a larger
conflagration as with any conflict it is
always innocent civilians who bear the
brunt with women and children suffering
disproportionately we are seeing for
example how civilians in the occupied
Palestinian territory and other parts of
the region are already reeling from
unprecedented levels of suffering as a
result of the ongoing conflict between
Israel and
Palestine Madame President Guyana
further calls on countries of the region
to fully comply with their International
obligations
and to uphold the principles of respect
for sovereignty and territorial
Integrity we also demand full adherence
to international law including the
United Nations Charter and for the
parties to settle their differences
through peaceful and lawful means Madame
President violence begets violence and
compromises peace and security Guyana
reiterates its call on all parties to
choose the path of peace and dialogue I
thank you I thank the representative of
and pass the floor to Sierra
Deon Madam president I thank you for
convening this
meeting I also thank un Secretary
General his Excellency Antonio
gutterz for his important briefing on
the lest Gravely concerning
development in the Middle
East so refers to an identical letter of
13th April
2024 from the permanent representative
of Israel to the United Nations
addressed to the president of the
security Council confirming a request
and I quote convene a meeting of the
security Council immediately end of
court and letter dated 13th April
2024 from the perent representative of
Iran to the United Nations to the
president of the security Council and
the secret
General document s202 24304
The Identical letter of 13th April
2024 from the permanent representative
of Israel informs that and I quote Iran
launched a direct attack from within its
territory of more than 200 uavs Cru
missiles and ballistic missiles towards
Israel in clear violation of the UN
Charter and international law end of
quote on the other hand document s202
24305 the letter dated 13th April
2024 from the permanent representative
of Iran informs that and I quote in the
late hours of 13 April
2024 the Islamic Republic of Iran
carried out a series of military strikes
on Israeli military objectives end of
quote in addition to his briefing to the
security Council just now we take note
of the timely statement by the secret
General regarding attacks by the Islam
Republic of Iran targeting Israel in
which he and I quote strongly condemns
the serious escalation represented by
the large scale attack launched on
Israel by the Islamic Republic of Iran
end of quot and call for an immediate
cation of these
hostilities Madame
President the middle east region is once
again and regrettably a dangerous
Crossroads the escalating tension in the
Middle East is dangerous and
unprecedented with the potential to
destabilize not only the entire region
but impact Global Peace and
security less than two weeks ago in this
Council seron strongly condemned the use
of force in violation of the UN Charter
relevant international law including the
development and conduct of friendly
relations diplomatic and Consular
protections as well as conduct in the
region that may lead to an escalation or
for exate tensions in the already
volatile
situation in a similar way seron
strongly condemns claim risal attacks
not in Conformity with international law
and the UN
Charter with the Middle East at a
knife's edge and at the precipice of a
dangerous
escalation either by an intentional
calculus or accidental one with equally
grave Global
ramification the path to peace is
certainly not t for Tat military attacks
but rather deescalation and diplomatic
engagement to this end we call on both
parties and all other involved parties
to exercise maximum restraint and resist
the urge to the further resort to the
use of
force we call on the parties and all
other involved parties to be mindful of
their obligations under international
law the UN Charter and to comply with
all relevant Security Council
resolutions the parties are
unequivocally obligated to comply with
their International obligations the UN
Charter principles and Provisions in
good faith in particular the imperity
for the peaceful resolution of dispute
and respect for the sovereignty and
territorial Integrity of each
state in urging
deescalation s is also mindful of the
ongoing hostilities in the Gaza Street
and the further imperative for the full
implementation of Security Council
resolutions
2712 2720 and
2728 the United Nations must not Retreat
from its important purpose and role in
confronting the consequential challenges
of our
times the security Council must continue
to play its part as envisaged by the UN
Charter further
expresses full support for the United
Nations secret General and his envoys
and representatives to use the good
offices of our organization to lead
effort in ensuring
deescalation all involved parties Mo
move onto the path of Peace peaceful
coexistence and good neighborliness
through
negotiations state with influence over
the parties are call upon to leverage
such influence for deescalation
and
peace let us choose peace security and
stability over War I thank you I thank
the representative of Sierra Leon and
pass the floor to
Slovenia thank you very much uh Madame
President uh I want to thank Secretary
General for joining us and for sharing
with us um his assessment of the
situation um I also want to welcome the
presence of the representatives of
Israel of Iran and Syria at the meeting
I would like to start by expressing our
deepest concern over the recent
developments in the Middle East we
strongly condemn the large scale attack
on Israel launched by the Islamic
Republic of Iran
yesterday we resolutely deplore this
serious escalation as we have done in
the case of the attack on the Iranian
consulate last week the sequence of
these events threatens to accelerate the
spiral of violence escalating into a
broader conflict of unpredictable scope
it is crucial for all involved parties
to recognize the severity of the
situation and immediately seize
hostilities we call on all countries to
respect and act in accordance with
international law we once again
underline that the same standards apply
to all member states and all of us have
the obligation to uphold the UN Charter
first let me underline Our concern over
the regional escalation and its
spillover effects we share the concerns
of the Secretary General that the danger
of a devastating region-wide escalation
is present it is imperative that every
action taken by the involved parties be
measured and deliberate to avoid further
escalation since any miscalculation can
lead us to the point of no return the
situation is highly alarming deeply
worrying and it's extremely
volatile second Slovenia has
consistently called for deescalation
unrestraint today we repeat our call to
All actors in the region to show maximum
restraint we call on countries with
influence on State and non-state actors
to exert that influence and prevent
prevent the worst from happening we urge
everyone to choose the path of dialogue
and diplomacy and refrain from further
retaliations
we therefore welcome today's meeting as
a step towards deescalation and the
peaceful settlement of the
dispute thirdly we have been witnessing
the significant impact of the
devastating situation in Gaza on the
region including along the Blue Line in
the Red Sea and
elsewhere it is our Collective
responsibility to take immediate action
by adopting resolution
2728 we took a step forward forward in
addressing the crisis however our
failure to ensure its full
implementation represents a critical
setback Slovenia continues to believe
that a ceasefire in Gaza would have a
calming effect on tensions in the region
every moment we delay the risk of a
broader conflict
increases Madame President in these
chaotic times another major military
confrontation in the Middle East could
lead to devastating consequences for the
region and the world placing the
interest of the people in the region and
International Peace and Security First
Slovenia calls for restrain by All
actors and return to diplomacy as a
security council member we are ready to
fully engage in a comprehensive response
to the crisis in the region thank you I
thank the representative of Slovenia
pass the floor to the United States
thank you Madame President for bringing
us here today and thank you uh Secretary
General Gutierrez for your
briefing the United States condemns in
the strongest terms the unprecedented
attack on the state of Israel by the
Islamic Republic of Iran and its
militant proxies and
partners Iran's intent was to cause
significant damage in death in Israel it
launched over 300 Munitions including
more than 100 ballistic missiles and
land attack cruise missiles at Israel as
well as explosive unmanned aerial
vehicles
Iran's Reckless actions not only posed a
threat to populations in Israel but also
to other UN member states in the region
including Jordan and
Iraq the security Council has an
obligation to not let Iran's actions go
unanswered indeed for far too long Iran
has flagrantly violated its
International legal obligations notably
through the actions of its Islamic
revolutionary guard Corps or irgc
by arming hisbah in violation of
Security Council resolution
1701 by arming facilitating and enabling
houti attacks on Saudi Arabia and the
UAE and more recently Merchant and
commercial shipping in the Red Sea in
clear violation of resolution
2216 and in defiance of resolution
2722 and of course Iran transferred
Shahed oneway attack drones to Russia
the same drones it used in last night's
attacks against Israel at a time when
such transfers were in clear violation
of resolution
2231 in recent years Iran has also
repeatedly violated international law by
targeting with mines and seizing
commercial ships in international waters
of the Persian Gulf and surrounding
waterways just as it did on April 12
when it seized a Portuguese flag ship
near the straight of
Hormuz Iran continues to detain both the
ships and its crew comprised of citizens
from five countries including
Russia Iran was also in a broad sense
complicit in the October 7 attack on
Israel because it has provided
significant funding and training for the
military wing of
Hamas this Iranian support contributed
to the current crisis in
Gaza colleagues these and other Reckless
Iranian actions are not inherently
defensive actions against other member
states given the threats Iran's
aggressive actions posed for
International Peace and security we have
a collective responsibility as members
of the security Council to ensure that
Iran complies with the council's
resolutions and ceases its violations of
the
charter in the coming days and in
consultation with other member states
the United States will explore
additional measures to hold Iran
accountable here at the United Nations
more immediately the security Council
must unequivocally condemn Iran's
aggressive actions and call for Iran and
its partners and proxies to cease their
attacks the United States also supports
Israel's exercise of its inherent right
to defend itself in the face of this
attack and as President Biden stated we
will remain in close contact with
Israel's leaders and let me be clear if
Iran or its proxies take actions against
the United States or further action
against Israel Iran will be held
responsible we note Secretary General
guer statement warning that the region
is at risk of plunging into a deeper and
wider war on multiple
fronts the United States is not seeking
escalation our actions have been purely
defensive in
nature the best way to prevent such
escalation is an unambiguous
condemnation from the council of Iran's
unprecedented large-scale attack and an
unequivocal call on it and its proxies
and partners to refrain from further
violence our goal is to deescalate and
then get back to the issue at hand
securing an end to the conflict in Gaza
by getting a ceasefire in Gaza through a
hostage deal as well as surging
humanitarian assistance to Palestinians
in need thank you madam president I
thank the representative of the United
States and pause the floor to Ecuador
pres thank you Madame President I wish
to thank the Secretary General for the
information provided I also welcome the
presence of the permanent
representatives of Iran Israel and Syria
the attacks carried out yesterday by
Iran constitute a grave threat to
International Peace and security and to
the much desired Regional stability my
government has strongly condemned the
attack against Israel and has called for
an escalation of the conflict to be
avoided such an escalation could have
unpredictable consequences including a
configration that could affect the whole
of humankind Ecuador adds its voice to
the widespread call for tensions to be
reduced and for threats to be avoided
threats which keep civilians in the
Chokehold of insecurity and anguish I
conclude by urging all to exercise the
utmost restraint and to
prioritize diplomatic and political
instruments for the resolution of
conflict I also call upon all to
consider good faith supporting the
United Nations Regional bodies groups of
countries or countries with a view to
easing this alarming situation which as
has as the Secretary General has stated
could lead to military conflagrations on
a large scale in the Middle East thank
you
Algeria
sh thank you Madame President at the
outset I would like to thank the uh
Secretary General Mr Antonio gues for
his thorough briefing the security
Council meets today uh in the wake of
the developments in the Middle East
yesterday that actually create a threat
for a very dangerous escalation that
could bring the region and the world to
an even more dangerous stage where
things get out of control and whose
results cannot be predicted my country
Algeria is following these developments
with utmost concern and interest and
wounds against grave consequences should
the circle of conflict in the Middle
East broadens that's why we call upon
all parties to practice self- restraint
and avoid escalation would like also to
reiterate what the SG has said and I
quote that neither the region nor the
world can afford another world and of
quot and we have warned during the
security Council session that have
discussed the attacks launched by the
Israeli occupation forces on the Iranian
Embassy building in Damascus at the
beginning of this month uh we have
warned against the aftermath of not
putting an end to this arrogance and
behavior of the Israeli occupation in
the region and we have always emphasized
that this could bring the whole region
into conflict and today you can see that
our point of view was correct and our
warning was honest that's why the Middle
East is undergoing very critical
circumstances that makes it incumbent
upon all International actors to listen
to the voice of wisdom so that we can
all uh sail to safety together while
emphasizing that International Peace and
security could not be observed without
uh giving the utmost priority to the
principles and targets of the United
Nations Charter the policy of double
standards and adapting and tweaking uh
and focusing on the contradictory
interpretations of the international law
as perir whims and desires of some would
undermine our International order today
we are at a Crossroads either we hold
tight uh to the international law
without any adaptation or cajoling or
blandishment or we risk being submerged
into chaos and lack of stability the uh
crisis in the Middle East are part and
parcel of each other and they are all uh
interrelated and that's why the root
causes should be addressed and the root
cause is the Israeli occupation the
recent developments cannot overrule or
cover the central question which is the
aggression on the unarmed Palestinian
people in Gaza and at the same time we
can never uh use as a pretext or recover
for to launch a land attack against RAF
we would like to reiterate that it is
totally rejected if and we need to avoid
any attack on raah because its
ramifications in the region would be
catastrophic we would like to reiterate
that uh
deescalate the deescalation things in
the Middle East on the short term would
have to go through reaching a ceasefire
in Gaza and also to put an end to the
heinous uh killing machine uh and the
collective punishment that's being out
against the Palestinian people uh uh
sustainable peace and security region
would only be attainable through
empowering the Palestinian people of its
legitimate rights and inable right uh as
well and to put an end to isra
occupation across all Arab territories
and that's why the security Council
should rise to the occasion and deliver
on its functions on the protection of
International Peace and security and uh
prevent any further deterioration and
therefore to work afterwards seriously
on establishing the independent
Palestinian state with Al Sharif
Jerusalem its capital and to put an end
of the Israeli occupation of all Arab
territories thank you mad president than
the representative of Algeria and pass
the floor to
Japan thank you Madame President I also
thank Secretary General for the for his
timely briefing on this urgent matter we
are now witnessing an extremely
dangerous situation that that could
cause catastrophic consequences for the
whole region and the world Japan is
deeply concerned about the attack by
Iran against Israel using numerous
drones and missiles which put huge
population in the in real danger and
could further aggravate the current
turmoil in the Middle East Japan
strongly condemns such as an
escalation we are seriously concerned
that this large military action will
increase the already extremely
heightened tensions in the Middle East
and lead to a wider and more serious
Regional confrontation with Global
Security and economic
ramifications it is imperative for the
security Council to address this matter
as a United body responsible for
International Peace and security to
contain the risk of the region plunging
into an
abys Japan has been strongly urging the
parties concerned to calm down and
deescalate the situation and exercise
Max maximum restraints as the Secretary
General just mentioned Japan reiterates
its determination to continue to make
all necessary diplomatic efforts in
order to prevent a further
deterioration we must end this vicious
cycle of violence at the Historical
critical juncture I thank you than the
representative of Japan and pass the
floor to France
I thank you Madame President I wish to
thank the Secretary General for his
briefing France condemns in the
strongest terms the unprecedented attack
that was launched by Iran against Israel
yesterday and which threatens to
destabilize the region the Secretary
General also condemned this attack that
attack was a serious and major threat to
International Peace and security and in
particular to stability and Security in
the region in deciding to undertake such
an unprecedented Act Iran crossed a new
threshold in its destabilizing action
and is risking a military escalation for
which it would be responsible we call
upon Iran and its allies to at long last
and without further delay cease their
destabilizing activities throughout the
region France expresses its solidarity
with the Israeli people and recalls its
commitment to the security of Israel of
our partners and to Regional stability
we welcome the fact that very
fortunately indeed Israel was able to
successfully repel that attack that made
it possible to avoid the worst and spare
many civilians France is working towards
deescalation with its Partners in the
region and we call for restraint
president of the Republic Emanuel mcon
and the minister for Europe and Foreign
Affairs Stefan S are working assiduously
on that task France is fully mobilized
to find a settlement to the crisis
besetting the Middle East for
deescalation and to enforce the
principles that underpin our
International order in Lebanon we've
made proposals to the two parties with a
view due to reaching through dialogue a
cessation of hostilities in Gaza France
is striving to bring about the immediate
and unconditional release of hostages
and to bring about an immediate and
Lasting ceasefire it is High Time 6
months after the terrorist attacks of
October 7th and the beginning of the war
in Gaza to lay the foundation for a
lasting political settlement to this
crisis by tackling the root causes of
the conflict that is what is proposed by
the resolu the draft resolution that we
have proposed to this Council we call
upon all members to support it we must
no leave no stone unturned in avoiding a
new war in the Middle East thank you
United Kingdom thank you president and
thank you Secretary General for briefing
us
today the United Kingdom condemns
unequivocally Iran's Reckless attack
against Israel which risked thousands of
Civilian
casualties the scale and nature of
Iran's heinous assault the first direct
attack from Iran on Israeli soil poses
grave risks to the security and
stability of citizens across the Middle
East the United Kingdom has long been
clear that Iran plays an unacceptable
role in destabilizing the region and
that it also Bears
responsibility for the actions of groups
it has supported
militarily financially
and politically over many
years through this attack Iran has once
again demonstrated that it is intent on
sewing chaos in the
region as we have
demonstrated the United Kingdom will
continue to stand up for Israel's
security and for that of all our
regional Partners including Jordan and
Iraq we welcome the actions of our
allies to deter the Iranian
threat no one wants to see further
Bloodshed the United Kingdom is also
continuing to work urgently alongside
the International Community to stabilize
the situation and prevent further
escalation it is vital that all parties
exercise maximum restraint and refrain
from any action that may heighten
tensions further in the
region we also call on Iran to release
the MSC Aries and its crew
unconditionally and without
delay Iran's actions do nothing to
advance the prospects for peace in
Israel and
Gaza as set out Security Council
resolution
2728 the United Kingdom remains resolved
to work with International Partners to
secure an immediate pause in the
fighting in Gaza to get Aid in and
hostages out leading to a sustainable
ceasefire without a return to
destruction fighting and the loss of
life thank you madam president I thank
the representative of the United Kingdom
and pass the floor to
Mozambique thank you Madame President we
thank malta's president for convening
this urgent
meeting we highly value the insights
provided by his Excellency Mr Antonio
gues Secretary General of the United
Nation on this
crisis Madame President precisely two
weeks ago when discussing the Israel air
strike on the Iranian diplomatic mission
in Damascus we raise serious concern
that the incident could escalate
Regional tensions and could potentially
lead to retaliation and heighten the
conflict between Israel and
Iran regret uh regrettably our concerns
have materialized yesterday we w w
witnessed a serious of military strikes
on the Israeli soil carrying out by the
Islamic Republic of Iran invoking
self-defense under article 51 of the UN
chter we express our deep concern on the
yesterday's Iranian
strikes a it for forat cycle of mutual
aggression is not consistent with the
logic of peace and peaceful coexistence
between states it leads to more depth
suffering and misery it will further
exacerbate the prevailing t in the
region and may trigger more conflict
potentially involving other countries
with Unthinkable
implications we strongly believe that it
is crucial for all parties involved to
exercise restraint and approach the
situation with prudence and
wisdom careful consideration of risks
and extended consequences is therefore
essential during this critical moment
Madame President in light of the current
situation it is imperative that all
parts involved Israel and Iran in
particular strictly abide by the charter
of the United Nation that compels all
member states to refrain from the threat
of use of force in their international
relations stability in the Middle East
is vital for the security and
development of region and Beyond it is
ENT IAL that states in the region and
their allies pursue policies that
promote peace and stability with due
regard for a balance of
interests to that end we council members
individually and collectively must
actively engage all concerned parties to
prevent and miscalculation that could
lead to broader conflict in an already
volatile region
such escalation would have
devastating consequences for civilians
who are already suffering in Syria
Lebanon in the occupied Palestinian
territory Israel and the broader Middle
East we appeal that we strive for peace
understanding and cooperation in the
Middle East acknowledging the
legitimate concerns of all involved
parties is a crucial step towards
fostering stability and Harmony in
diversity and let us remind ourself that
the central issue in the Middle East is
the materialization of a two-state
solution whereby Israel and Palestine
can live together side by side in peace
and security as two independent and
sovereign states I thank you Madame
President I thank the representative of
mozambik and pass the floor to the
Republic of Korea
thank you Madame President I thank
secret General Kus for his important
briefing on the gra situation in the
Middle East including yesterday's attack
by Iran against
Israel the Republic of Korea is Gravely
concerned about the current situation in
the Middle East exemplified by
yesterday's attack by Iran against
Israel using numerous drones and
missiles the Republic Korea condemns
these large large scale attacks which
are not in compliance with international
law to make the situation worse freedom
of navigation is now being threatened
not only in the Red Sea but also at the
straight of hormud which cannot be
justified regardless of any
excuse since the outbreak of the
horrendous terrorist attack by Hamas
against Israeli citizens on the 7th of
October last year and subsequent
military operation by Israel in Gaza and
in in humanitarian
catastrophe the International Community
including the Republic Korea has
repeatedly wared against the possibility
of increasingly dangerous spillover in
the Middle
East earlier this month when we
witnessed the incidence at the Iranian
consulate that resulted in casualties in
Damascus
Syria the Republic of Korea expressed
its deep concern that additional violent
instance could escalate into new
tragedies in the region
unfortunately what we are seeing we are
now seeing this even more dangerous
tension surging in the Middle
East amidst the worst escalation in the
Middle East where the entire region
stands at risk of being engulfed in the
Flames of War what is crucial is finding
the most effective solution to East
tension rather than finger pointing and
debating over who and what trigger the
current situation thus the secret
Council should gather the wisdom of all
its
members we can still step back from the
brink the ongoing escalation of the
already dire dire tension in the region
should immediately stop any Regional
escalation should be condemned and the
regional actors should exercise full
restraint in order to prevent any
additional spillover
thus we take note that the permanent
representative of the Islamic Republic
of Iran expressed in his letter to the
Secretary General yesterday the position
that Iran does not seek escalation or
conflict in the region and we hope that
this affirmation can be realized with
actual
compliance the Republic of Korea is
monitoring this situation with deep
concern and once again calls on all
parties to exercise restraints in order
to prevent further escalation of the
situation let me conclude by reiterating
again what Secretary General gutterz
point out yesterday in his in his
statement and today in his briefing
neither the region nor the world can
afford another military
confrontation immediate the escalation
is as everybody understand an urgent
Collective need at this critical
juncture I thank you Madame President I
thank the represent of the Republic of
Korea and pass the floor to Switzerland
mer Madame thank you Madame
President we welcome this with convening
of the security Council and we thank the
Secretary General gutterz for his
statement detailing the events of the
recent events and we underscore our
common responsibility Switzerland firmly
condemns the coordinated attacks by Iran
on Targets in Israel last night
these attacks are part of a spiral of
violence which is already dangerously
underway in the region as we also saw
with the air strike against Iran's
Consulate in Damascus on the 1st of
April an attack that Switzerland also
condemned each of these attacks
increases the risk of further escalation
in the
region we also note with concern the
seizure of a the MSC Aries a Portuguese
flagged Ship by the Iranian armed forces
in the straight of
Hormuz we have repeatedly warned against
the risk of accelerating the spiral of
violence in the region it is imperative
that all parties in the region and those
with influence over them exercise the
utmost restraint to avoid a further
endangering the people of the region we
call on all parties to an armed conflict
to respect their obligation to protect
civilian populations and
infrastructures we repeat once again our
appeal this spiral of escalation must
stop immediately the region must not be
plunged into an even wider and deadlier
conflict at a time when we are facing a
catastrophic humanitarian situation in
Gaza and when tensions and exchanges of
fire at the blue line between Southern
Lebanon and Lebanon uh Lebanon between
Southern Lebanon Israel are at an old
time High we call for full respect and
support for unifil Mission and other un
missions in the region deescalation must
be the priority this includes the
implementation of resolution 2728 an
immediate ceasefire in Gaza is urgent as
is this sensation of attacks by armed
groups in the region we take note of the
Declaration by the Iranian authorities
that they do not wish to continue their
operation we recall in this context that
any recourse to the use of Force must be
in strict Conformity with the charter
and that International humanitarian law
must be respected by all parties in such
situations dialogue is essential the
council and all states must fully play
their part in facilitating deescalation
to this end Switzerland is ready to
bring its contribution I thank you
representative of Switzerland and pass
the floor to the Russian
Federation Madame President
we listened very closely to the
statement made made by the Secretary
General and we also noted um um
Secretary General the fact that
yesterday you instantly publicly reacted
and condemned the actions of Iran it is
regrettable that unlike the meeting
today you did not propose to break to
brief the Council on the 2nd of April
where upon Russian initiative an
emergency briefing was called to discuss
the Israeli strike against the Consular
premises and Damascus we would like to
also see a greater activity on your part
so as to convey to members of the
council information on other no less
turbulent uh topics for the Middle East
today for example about the um now
regular attacks by Israel against
neighboring Syria and Lebanon um if uh
such um attitude uh will such things
will continue unnoticed then your
appeals to restraint by all parties
which share can become
futile distinguished colleagues when we
met in this chamber on the 2nd of April
so as to discuss the strike by Israel
against the Consular premises um of the
Islamic Republic of Iran Damascus we
warned that what was needed was a strong
and unified signal by the council that
such actions were
unacceptable and not only against the
sovereign states of Iran or Syria and
not only in the Middle
East but anywhere in the
world we called upon the colleagues of
insecurity Council to clearly une
unequivocally condemn such Reckless
steps to make sure that they don't get
repeated we also warranted that
otherwise the risk of a repeat of such
acts and the general escalation in the
region would grow
manifold we even proposed a draft press
statement by the security Council and
this was put together on the basis of of
standards for CH cases depoliticized
language and what did we hear at that
time from our Western delegations they
said that for them not everything was
clear and obvious and uh what was
necessary was to assess and see whether
such a signal from the council will help
stabilize the situation in the
region the United States UK and France
there
essentially declined to confirm that the
basic principles of international law
about the inviability of de diplomatic
and Consular facilities which are
enshrined in the Vienna conventions on
this issue apply equally to all
states and um the outcome is now clear
for everyone to see you know very well
that an attack uh against a diplomatic
representation is a kazus belly under
international law and if a western
representation had been h you would
immediately have rained down reprisals
and would argued that you were right
about this in this very chamber and this
is because for you everything that has
to do with Western representations and
Western citizens is sacred it needs to
be
protected but when it comes to other
countries their rights including the
right to
self-defense about their Nationals well
that's a different matter as you like to
say what happens then um is you activate
your favorite argumentation about lack
of information you start doing
legalistic care splitting Etc and today
the security Council we're witnessing is
a display of hypocrisy and double
standards which it's almost embarrassing
to
watch um Russia has warned on many an
occasion that the fact that many crises
in the Middle East are unsettled first
and foremost in the area of Israeli and
Palestinian conflict which are
frequently fueled by irresponsible
unilat Al provocative acts will lead to
a growth of tension in the whole
region we have stated on many occasion
that no country in the Middle East or
northern northern Africa should become
an arena for regional or International
confrontation or an arena for settling
political
scores what happened in the night of the
14th of April did not happen in a in a
vacuum the steps undertaken by Iraq
became a reaction to a disgrace ful
inaction by the security
Council um and a reaction to an
courageous attack by Israel against
Damascus and not the first one because
Syria is constantly being bombarded by
Israel many of you today did not find
the courage to State clearly that the
Outburst of escal violence in the Middle
East is developing against the
background of an operation which is
lasting more than 6 months is
unprecedented in terms of the number of
victims an operation conducted by West
Jerusalem in Gaza and West Bank and this
is despite an unambiguous demand in
Security Council resolution
2728 to cease fire
immediately such silence uh about the
deep root of the crisis is unacceptable
we think especially against the
background of um the um tension
surrounding Iran which is fueled by the
Us and other colleagues and the fact
that Israel is not uh complying with the
Security Council resolutions is an
obvious disrespect shown to the council
to all of you who are here in the uh
members seats and a complete disregard
to the decisions made by the security
Council and non-compliance with Security
Council decisions is not something that
one should get away with and it's fraud
with sanctions against the
Violator Madame President we recall very
well the dangerous escalations in
January 2020 when the region was on the
brink of a conflict as a result of an
legal elimination by the United States
on Iraqi territory of Kasam suani and a
number of um other Iraqi officials but
Washington did not draw appropriate
conclusions from that and as a result
The Reckless acts undermining stability
security and sovereignty of regional
neighbors of Iran are
continuing we call on all involved in
the incident all parties involved in the
incident to um to exercise restraint
under the extremely tense situation on
the ground in the Middle
East
and and the obvious risk of the cons of
the conflict growing and becoming a re
region-wide we expect and that Regional
States will resolve all of the issues
they have using political and diplomatic
means only we also think it's important
to make sure that the constructive
International Players assisted in this
matter this B level conference ation and
bloodshed Must Be Stopped we think it's
urgent for the entire International
Community to undertake all efforts
necessary to deescalate the situation
otherwise the region could become drawn
into a vicious cycle of mutual attacks
and violence in this regard we note the
signal sent by tyan that they do not
seek a further military escalation
against Israel and we urge West
Jerusalem to follow suit and reject the
practice of Prov ative use of force in
the Middle East as they are fraught with
extremely dangerous risk risks and
consequences for the whole region which
is already destabilized as a result of
intensified Israeli Palestinian
confrontation I thank you I thank the
representative of the Russian Federation
pass the floor to
China Madame
President I thank secr General Antonio
gutes for his briefing I look forward to
hearing ing the statements to be made by
Iran Israel and
Syria respectively on the evolving
situation since the Gaza conflict began
the International Community has deployed
the unacceptable humanitarian
catastrophy in Gaza and made strong
demands for an immediate ceasefire to
end the hostilities it has also
expressed grave concerns at how a
prolonged conflict would exacerbate the
tensions in the region with serious
compounding spillover effects on the 1
of April Iran's diplomatic premises in
Syria were targeted in an air strike
resulting in multiple casualties on the
Iranian side and serious damage to the
set premises this incident was a serious
violation of the UN Charter and
international law as it violated both
the sovereignty of Syria and that of
Iran it was of a most egregious nature
a moment ago Secretary General garish
briefed us on the escalation that
happened on the 13th of April which
China finds highly concerning we have
also noted that according to Iran its
military action was in response to
Israel's aggression against its
diplomatic premises and the matter can
be deemed
concluded China calls on the parties
concerned to show maximum calm and
restraint and resolve their differences
and disputes in accordance with the
purposes of the UN Charter and
international law to avert any further
escalations Madam
president this round of escalations is
the latest manifestation of the Gaza
conflict spilling over to the wider
region it serves as another reminder
that the Palestinian question remains
Central to the Middle East issue and
bears on the peace stability and
long-term Security in the
region if the Flames of the Gaza
conflict are allowed to continue raging
then the adverse spillover is set to
spread still further making the region
even more unstable countries and peoples
in the Middle East have no desire for
nor can they afford a larger conflict or
War therefore the top priority at this
moment is an effective implementation of
resolution
2728 to bring about an immediate
ceasefire in Gaza ultimately there is no
alternative to the full implementation
of the two-state solution the only way
to end the vicious circle of the
palestini Israeli conflict once and for
all we call on the International
Community especially countries with
influence to play a constructive part in
the maintenance of regional peace and
stability I thank you Madame President I
thank the representative of China I will
now make a statement in my national
capacity I begin by thanking the
Secretary General for his briefing the
Middle East is experiencing one of the
bleakest and most volatile periods of
modern history which risk spiraling out
of control if all sides do not take a
step
back this was a point that Malta
stressed on 2nd April following the
deplorable attack by Israel on the
Iranian diplomatic premises in Damascus
on 1st April we had stressed the need
for deescalation and for maximum
restraint to be exercised by All actors
in the region regrettably these calls
for caution have been disregarded given
the recent
developments we emphasize our deep
concern about the significant escalation
posed by a large scale attack consisting
of of drones and various missiles
launched by the Islamic Republic of Iran
against
Israel we are also concerned with Iran's
seizure of the container ship MSC Aries
The Vessel along with its crew must be
immediately and unconditionally
released at a time when our focus should
be on diffusing tensions and reducing
conflict induced by advoc including by
advocating for an immediate and
permanent cease fire to the war in Gaza
facilitating the immediate and
unconditional release of all hostages
and ensuring the delivery of sustained
humanitarian Aid throughout Gaza all we
are witnessing are steps in the opposite
direction Iran's direct targeting of the
state of Israel risks Regional
catastrophe with innocent lives bearing
the Brandt of all
hostilities we stress that international
law including International humanitarian
law must be respected at all times once
again we reiterate our call on all
parties to exercise maximum restraint
including in their messaging to
deescalate and pursue peaceful and
diplomatic solutions to all disputes let
us be clear the region finds itself in
turmoil and stands on the precipice of
unimaginable hostilities and suffering
as the Secretary General outlined and I
quote neither the region nor the world
can afford another War I now resume my
functions as president of the council I
now give the floor to the representative
of
Israel thank you Madame
President Madame President yesterday the
Ayatollah regime in blatant violation of
the UN Charter and Inter and
international law attacked attacked the
state of Israel and launched 70 uavs
120 ballistic missiles and 30 cruise
missiles carrying 60 tons of explosive
materials at
Israel this attack was launched from
Iranian soil as well as from Lebanon
Yemen Syria and
Iraq colleagues from the moment I began
my tenure here in every speech and in
countless letters I ran the warning Bell
regarding Iran I called on this Council
to take concrete action against the
Ayatollah regime I made it clear that
Iran and its hegemonic Ambitions of
global domination Must Be Stopped before
it drives the world to a point of no
return to a regional war that can
escalate to a World War sadly no action
was taken and last night the world
witnessed an unprecedented escalation
that serves as the clearest proof for
what happens when warnings aren't
heed Israel is not the boy who cried
wolf we have been screaming from the
rooftops for years trying to wake up the
International Community but to no avail
if only this Council would have inter
internalized my words it would not have
needed the bone rattling explosions of
last night's attack to wake it
up colleagues last night Iran proved
again that it cares nothing nothing for
Islam or Muslims the Iranian attack
seriously injured Amina eloni a
seven-year-old bedwin girl in
Israel but look at this video that shows
how Israel intercepts Iranian drones
above the Temple mount in El AA mosque
[Music]
here you can look at
it this is the AA
[Music]
musk to Iran Israel's Annihilation and
igniting the region is more important
than Islamic holy sites the Ayatollah
regime in its plot to impose a global
Shiite hemony throughout its proxies
through its proxies has even attacked
Saudi Arabia as we all remember aramco
oilfield the United Arab Emirates and
anyone anyone else they view as an
obstacle I ask the Algerian
representative here how this make you
feel is this a price you support
attempting to blow up mosques and
murdering Muslims
yet while this direct Iranian attack on
Israel was the first of its kind it is
just the most recent chapter in a blood
soaked Saga that started from the moment
the Islamic revolution reared its head
the Ayatollah regime is a clear plan its
goal has been and continues to be World
Domination by exporting its radical
Shiite Revolution across the globe I
assume you all know it the Islamic
regime of today is no different than the
Third Reich and aay is no different than
Adolf Hitler Hitler's thirdd Reich was
envisioned to be a Thousand-Year Empire
stretching across continents just as Kam
envisions his radical Shiite haimon to
stretch across the region and
Beyond this is why Iran arms themselves
with intercontinental ballistic missiles
icbms Iran and Israel are on the same
continent you are
next the Ayatollah
regimes acts like the Nazi regime and
their army includes Hamas Palestinian
Islamic Jihad kisala the hutis the
Revolutionary guard and other Savage
jihadists instead of shouting SE H these
radical Nazi islamist scream death to
Israel death to America death to England
just like the Nazi regime the Ayatollah
regime SS death and destruction
everywhere it touches for the past years
Ukrainian civilians have been killed
from disguise with Iranian weaponary
president zalinski in condemnation of
Iran's attack last night said and I
quote the sound of Iranian Shahed drones
a tool of Terror is the same in the
Skies over the Middle East and Europe
this sound must serve as a wakeup call
to the Free World listen to president
zalinski and wake
up just like the ever reaching hand of
the vermak Iran struck Albania with
cyber attacks and launches strikes
against Kurds in
Iraq we all remember the 2021 attack on
the oil tanker Mercer Street in which
British and Romanian crew members were
killed and just yesterday yesterday Iran
seized a Portuguese cargo ship the crew
be being held right now by Iran includes
Indian Filipino Pakistani and Russian
Nationals Iran threatens Global Maritime
trade Iran is not only a terror State
Iran is a pirate State colleagues just
this week the court in Argentina held
Iran directly responsible for the 1994
terror attack in Bueno Iris on the
Jewish Community Center which killed 85
people and wounded 300 and just like the
Third Reich and their brutal SS officers
the Iranian regime not only spreads evil
abroad but also torments and murders
their own citizens in 2023 alone the
Ayatollah regime executed
834 Iranians the regime oppresses women
while murdering them for not wearing
their hijab properly when the Iranian
people peacefully protest this brutality
they are suppressed by live ammunition
hundreds of protesters were killed and
thousands have been
arrested this is a regime that allows
its own people to die of thirst in
Isfahan while it funds Terror around the
world with billions of
dollars what have you done to defend the
world from Iran seriously the entire
Globe is suffering from Iran including
the Iranian people please defend
them for years the world has watched has
watched the rise of a Shiite islamist
right yet just like during the rise of
Nazism the world has been silent
definitely
silent Mr Secretary General Iran has
been violating Security Council
resolutions and the un Charter for
years they Supply kisala with weapons in
violation of resolutions 1559 and 1701
they Advance weapons proliferation in
violation of resolution 2231 they
violate resolution 1540 and
2216 why have you not used all possible
means to condemn Iran and demand
compliance why have you instead rolled
out the red carpet for these genocidal
jihadist why do you treat them as if
they are interested in deescalation when
you know that the opposite is
true colleagues Iran's strategy has been
Crystal Clear arm fund and train Terror
proxies across the globe to carry out
Iran's murderous scheme of
domination but today the mask of Iranian
deniability has been removed no more
hiding and no more bluffing no more sh
king of
responsibility Iran has attacked Israel
from its own Sovereign territory
publicly and proudly the mask is
off Iran the number one Global sponsor
of Terror has exposed its true face as
the de destabilizer of the region and
the world and now right now is when the
world must stop ignoring Iran's crimes
and take action as Iran's mask has
fallen the world's comp complacency Y
Must also fall The Mask comes off and
the gloves must come
on the snooze button is no longer an
option the only option is to condemn
Iran and utilize every means necessary
to make them pay a heavy price for their
horrible crimes Iran and its AES of
supporters must be shown that the
Civilized world will no longer stay
stand idle while many countries
immediately condemned the attack those
who did not must ask themselves how do
you want history to remember
you council members last night's attack
was a blatant violation of international
law and the UN Charter it was an act of
utter escalation that can drag the
entire region and world into war but can
you imagine if the attack was carried
out under under an Iranian nuclear
umbrella or if or if some of the Iran's
of Iran's missiles had nuclear
warheads the regime that launched an
unprecedented strike on Israel a fellow
member state of the
UN is baring towards nuclear
capabilities this is a terror State
responsible for Global destruction and
soon they will have nuclear
capabilities you all know that Iran is
systematically violating the jcpa and
has enriched uranium up to 60% Purity
and even more Iran's breakout time to
produce an arsenal of Nu nuclear weapons
is now weeks mere
weeks no concrete action has been taken
and the IAA inspectors have been kept in
the dark Iran is on the verge of
becoming a nuclear power it should
terrify every member of this Council
take a moment to think what would happen
if a could have launched a nuclear bomb
last night is this the world we want to
live
in so to the jcpoa signator as I say
initiate the Snapback mechanism today
initiate it impose all possible
sanctions on Iran before it's too late
we need a world led by
Churches not
chamberlands colleagues on October 7th
Hamas with Iranian
funding with Iranian weaponary with
training carried out the most brutal
Massacre of Jews since the Holocaust
they slaughtered our children they
burned entire communities they raped our
women they took families hostage and are
abusing
133 hostages
Bala with its Iranian arms and
sponsorship have fired thousands of
rockets into Israel since October 7th
decimating
towns the houis with Iranian weapons and
instructions and intelligence are firing
at every Merchant vessel that is
suspected of having ties to
Israel and then Iran who directs and
pays for all of this violence carried
out an attack of epic portions on
Israel colleagues we are being fired
upon from all fronts from every border
we are surrounded by Iran's Terror
proxies the war in Gaza extends far
broader than Israel and Hamas all of the
terror groups attacking Israel are
tentacles tentacles of the same Shiite
octopus the Iranian
octopus so I ask you and be honest with
yourselves what would you do what would
you do if you were in Israel's shoes how
would you react if your existence was
threatened every single day while the
aah regime thinks they only think that
Israel is a frog in a boiling water that
we are becoming accustomed to the
threats on our survival and won't won't
notice until it's too late they are
wrong you are
wrong this attack crossed every red line
and Israel reserves the legal right to
retaliate we are not a frog in boiling
water we are a nation of
lions following such a massive and
direct attack on Israel the entire world
let alone Israel cannot settle for in
action we will defend our
future colleagues despite the magnitude
of the attack 19 9% of Iran's uavs and
missiles were intercepted by Israel and
our allies I wish to take this
opportunity to thank the United States
and our partners for standing with us in
defending Israel against the Ayatollah
regime indiscriminate attacks yet the
fact that Israel's air defense proved to
be superior does not change the
brutality of the Iranian attack Iran can
no longer hide behind its proxies it has
now exposed itself as the terror export
exporting Pariah state that it is and it
must from now on be treated as such it's
not enough to remove Iran from the UN
Commission on the status of
women Iran is the world's worst human
rights violator and such a regime cannot
hold any un position no more red carpet
treatment here at the UN no more
appeasement today the council must take
action condemn Iran for their Terror
trigger the snapack mechanism and
reimpose crippling
sanction designate the Iranian
revolutionary guard Corp as a terror
organization action must be taken now
not for Israel's sake not for the
Region's sake but for the world's sake
stop Iran today thank you Madame
President I thank the representative of
Israel I pass the floor to the
representative of the Islamic Republic
of Iran thank
you in the name of God the compassionate
the merciful Madame
President as we informed in our letter
last night in response to the Israeli
regime recurring military aggression
particularly its armed attack on 1st
April 2024 against Iranian diplomatic
premises a defense of article second
of the charter of the United Nations the
Armed Forces of the Islamic Republic of
Iran carried out a series of military
strike on Israeli military objectives
with thousands of missile and
drones Iran's operation was entirely in
the exercise of Iran's inherent right to
self-defense as outlined in article 51
of the charter of the United Nations and
recognized by international law law this
concluded action was necessary and
proportionate it was precise and only
targeted military objectives and carried
out carefully to minimize the potential
for escalation and prevents civilian
harm Madame
President we thank those members of the
council who condemned the Israeli armed
attack against our diplomatic premises
in Syria regrettably in this chamber
certain member of the council including
the US UK and France has chosen once
again to turn a blind eye to reality and
Overlook the root causes
contributing to the current
situation in hypocritical behavior these
three countries falsely blamed and
accused Iran without considering their
own
failures to uphold their International
commitment to peace and Security in the
region they made unsuccessful attempts
to use lies manipulate the narrative
spread thisinformation and engage in a
destructive blame game all the while
they deliberately disregarded Iran's
inherent right to respond to the
violation of a fundamental principle of
international law the inviolability of
diplomat IC representative and
premises moreover they ignored the
underlying root causes of the current
situation in the
region for over 6 months now these
countries especially the United States
have shielded Israeli from any
responsibility for the Gaza
Massacre while they have denied Iran
inherent right to self-defense against
the Israeli armed attack on our
diplomatic premises says at the same
time they shamefully Justified the
Israeli Massacre and genocide against
the defenseless Palestinian people under
the pretext of
self-defense they made cynical attempt
to justify and cover up the atrocities
of the Israeli regime against the people
of Palestine by arbitrary and misleading
interpretation of
self-defense Madame President following
the Israeli regime cover ly terrorist
and armed attack against our diplomatic
premises in Damascus the Syrian Arab
Republic on the 1st of April we notified
the UN Security Council and Secretary
General of such International rful act
as well as of Iran's inherent right
under international law to respond to
such terrorist armed attack also in a
phone conversation with the UN Secretary
General on 2nd April Iran foreign
minister discussed the situation and
called for taking appropriate action and
a strong condemnation from the
International Community for this
horrific crime we call upon the security
Council to strongly denounce this
unjustified criminal and terrorist act
taking decisive and appropriate measure
to bring the perpetrators to Justice
swiftly and prevent the requirements of
the such horrible crime against the
Diplomatic premises of any member State
regrettably the security Council has
failed in its duty to maintain
International Peace and security Russia
proposed a press statement to denounce
this atra atrocious act which was backed
by China Algeria and many members but
was blocked by the US UK and
France faced with such circumstances the
Islamic Republic of Iran had no choice
but to exercise its inherent right to
self-defense under international
law Madame President the root cause of
the current situation are clear to all
from the start of the Israeli war
against Palestinian people in Gaza more
than 34,000 civilians two3 of them
children and women have been killed all
civilian infrastructures have been
targeted and destroyed by Israel even
humanitarian workers have not been
immune from the military attacks of this
rough regime the absence of
accountability and conil in action fac
with the Israeli genocide and war crimes
against the Palestinian people has only
emboldened this regime to continue its
violation
unchecked the US and its allies have
blocked the security Council for our 6
months protecting Israel from
accountability for the Gaz
massak they not only avoid condemning
Israel for these atrocities but also
actively try to cover up them their sole
priority is supporting and defending
Israel regardless of the consequences
and at all costs despite International
pressure and un Security Council
resolution calling for a ceasefire
Israel has defied this
resolution rather it Focus remains on
committing more atrocious crime showing
no regard for international legal
obligation Madame President this Lawless
regime has committed many atrocious
crime against our people this regime Bly
and openly admitted its responsibility
for the terrorist and destructive
operation committed against against
Iranian officials scientists and
civilians and sabotage against our
peaceful nuclear infrastructure in
recent year this Israeli regime even
made explicit threats to use nuclear
weapons against a sovereign member state
of the United Nation this terrorist
regime is responsible for all criminal
and terrorist act committed against Iran
and must bear the consequences the
Islamic Republic of Iran has warned time
and again about the repercussions of the
malicious activities of the regime on
Regional and International Peace and
security Iran has exercised maximum
restraint now it is time for the
occupying regime to Bear full
responsibility for its consequences this
regime cannot Aid
accountability Madame President Israel
ongoing destabilized and respons action
and atrocities against the nation in the
region are a real threat to Regional and
International Peace and security the
Israeli Prime Minister's policy seeks to
expand and escalate the conflict in the
region to stay in
power the member of the security Council
must not allow such an August body the
security Council to be held hostage to
the Ambitions of such a beligerant
regime it is time for the security
Council to shoulder its responsibility
and address the real threat to
International Peace and security the
security Council must promptly fulfill
its Duty under chapter 7 of the charter
in response to Israeli Reckless Defiance
it must take urgent and punative
measures to compel this regim to stop
its genocide and Massacre against the
people of Gaza and uphold its oblig
ation especially fully implement the UN
Security Council resolution and legally
binding orders of the international
court of
justice the main and longstanding threat
to the peace and security of our region
is well known to all and the attempts to
conceal it through disinformation a
smear campaign or Bas accusation against
others are pointless and unfunded Iran
is never seeking to contribute to the
speel of of the conflict in the region
nor does it to escalate or spread the
tension to the entire region contrary to
unfounded claims Iran has no proxy in
the region no individual group or
country act at the Iran behest the US
and Israeli regime attempt to label the
resistance group in the region as the
Proxes or terrorist their Sinister aim
is only to just justify and legalize
their malicious and the stabilized
activities in the region the resistance
group are not Proxes or terrorists they
are legitimate and are only fighting
against occupation and agression of
Israel in Gaza and occupied Palestine
territories and of the US in the region
international law recognized such
legitimate rights against any occupation
and ation
instead the US and the UK are fully
responsible for all its decades long
aggressions and other crimes and
unlawful measures in our region
furthermore they are responsible for all
crimes of the Israeli regime as it
cannot commit any of such Savage crimes
in Gaza without the consent order and
all out political financial and Military
support of and collaboration with the
United States and the UK we reject the
allegation made by the Israeli regime at
this meeting such false and unfounded
claims don't Merit to response Madame
President as a responsible member of the
United Nation the Islamic Republic of
Iran is committed to the prose and
principles enshrined in the charter of
the United Nation reaffirms once more
its commitment to the maintainance of
International Peace and security the
Islamic Republic of Iran retraced its
consistent position that it does not
seek escalation or war in the region
while warning about any further military
provocation by the Israeli regime the
Islamic Republic of Iran reaffirms it
unwavering determination to defense its
people National Security and interest
sovereignty and territorial Integrity
against any threat or act of aggression
and to respond to any such threat or
aggression regly and in accordance with
international law the Islamic Republic
of Iran will not hesitate to exercise
this right when required Madame
President excellencies Iran has no
intention of engaging in conflict with
the US in the region we demonstrated our
commitment to peace by exercising our
restraint about involving the US Army in
intercepting Iranian drones and missiles
Bound for military Target in the
occupied Palestinian territories this
underscores our dedication to De
escalating tension and avoiding the
expansion of conflict however if the US
initiate military operation against Iran
its citizen or its security and interest
Iran will use its inherent right to
respond proportionately I thank
you I thank the representative of the
Islamic Republic of Iran and pass the
floor to the Syrian Arab
Republic thank you Madame
President Madame President what our
region witnessed yesterday is a natural
and inevitable outcome of repeated
aggressions and Grave violations of
international law and the United Nations
Charter perpetrated by the Israeli
occupation authorities on the
territories of my country Syria and
other countries in that these
authorities were taking advantage of the
support offered by the US Administration
in this Council and
elsewhere this American support this
blind and unlimited American Support has
led the occupation author ities to
mistakenly believe that they are above
the United Nations and above
international law and above the
conventions and the resolutions that
were adopted by our Organization for
decades the support LED these
authorities to believe that they can
continue perpetrating their crimes and
their escalation of the situation in our
region with no response and no
consequence my country the Syrian Arab
Republic has warned the security Council
and the Secretariat
repeatedly in official letters warned of
the dangers of an escalation of the
explosion that the Israeli occupation
authorities are trying to spark to cover
up for their military failure in Gaza
and to find
justifications for it to continue its
genocide and other
atrocities against the Palestinian
people
and the accompanying hysterical attacks
on countries in the
region in our letters we have repeatedly
called upon the United Nations and the
security Council to take immediate
action in accordance with their
mandate however the US Administration
and a number of its allies have
obstructed any Movement by the security
Council to shoulder its responsibility
in the maintenance of International
Peace and security and put an end to
Israel's crimes and holding it
accountable the behavior of these
countries is nothing new these countries
have prevented for over 7 and a half
decades the United Nation from
shouldering its responsibility to put an
end to the Israeli occupation of
occupied Arab territories and to return
legitimate Arab rights that are inherent
to those who hold them and in accordance
with relevant United Nations resolutions
at the Forefront of which are
resolutions 242 338 and 497 these
resolutions are the basic foundation and
the ENT the essence of a resolution to
the Arab Israeli conflict and the best
means to deal with the repercussions of
the Israeli occupation on the region
including the crisis and challenges that
it entailed Syria holds the Israeli
occupation authorities and the US
Administration fully responsible for the
Israeli attacks and any additional
escalation that threatens peace and
Security in the
region Syria stresses that our region
has suffered enough from the violations
perpetrated by the Zionist entity and
the US Administration and its allies
violations of the international law and
the principles
and purposes of the charter the time has
come to take Serious action where these
states reconsider their destructive
policies in our region and against our
peoples the time has come for the states
to immediately and unconditionally
Rectify these
policies including through imposing an
immediate halt to the Israeli aggression
on the Palestinian people and countries
in the region the states must guarantee
full and unimpeded humanitarian access
and they must put an end to the
intentional starving of the people of
Gaza
moreover there must be an end to the
illegitimate military presence of US
forces on the territory of my country
Syria we must put an end to the systemic
Looting of our national wealth we must
put a stop to the sponsoring of
terrorist organizations and and
separatist militias we demand a full and
unconditional removal of the unilateral
coercive measures which in themselves
are a form of economic terrorism and
Collective punishment that the Syrian
people must be freed of Madame
President we have listened to the
statements delivered by some Western
delegations which have once again
expressed their approach of hypocrisy
and double standards
some members of this Council have grown
used to offering their own
interpretations of the charter and use
them to serve their own goals and greed
including article 51 which guarantees a
basic right for all our states namely
the legitimate right to
self-defense the United States of
America and Britain and France have
launched repeated aggressions on my
country country which are which is
thousands of miles away from them these
attacks these three attacks these three
countries attacked my country
collectively and individually based on a
distorted interpretation of article 51
and flimsy claims that are no more than
baseless
lies they did not stop at that rather
they prevented the security Council from
discussing these attacks and from taking
any action to uph hold the principles of
the charter that these states are trying
to replace with what they call a
rules-based
order what the Islamic Republic of Iran
did
yesterday is a sound and practical
exercise of the legitimate right to
self-defense as envisaged by the
founding fathers of our organization and
as guaranteed by article 51 of the
charter
the Iranian response was an urgent
necessity imposed by the Israeli
occupation authorities persistent crimes
and hostile Behavior it was imposed by
the fact that the three Western States
who are permanent members of the
security Council have continued to
obstruct the security Council from
taking any action to put an end to these
uh violations or even simply condemn
them this was clearly manifest in the
fact that the United States France and
Britain obstructed the issuance by the
security Council of a press statement
that condemns the Israeli terrorist
attack against the Iranian Consulate in
the Syrian Capital Damascus which was a
clear violation of all International
conventions
and rules which guarantee the
inviability and Immunity of diplomatic
premises and personnel and what else is
to be expected from those who along with
their allies in the NATO barbarically
shelled the Chinese Embassy in Belgrade
in 1999 in closing Madame
President on the 25th of April
1945 the San Francisco Conference
inaugurated its proceedings laying the
groundwork for the United Nations and
the charter which is the guiding star
for our Collective action and in the
Charter were basic principles that
confirm the need to respect sovereignty
and equality between member states
regardless of their size today and more
than ever before our countries must
uphold these principles because
upholding them means the success of the
United Nations and its mandate and
violating them means dismissing the rule
of law and replacing it with the law of
the Jungle with war Wars and within
stability Syria is a founding member of
the United Nations and continues to
believe in this organization and its
principles and its
purposes and we wish for it to undertake
its role in maintaining International
Peace and security and in dealing with
the root causes of the challenges that
our country is facing namely the Israeli
occupation which is an impediment to the
peace and Security in our countries and
the prosperity of our peoples I thank
you madam
president I thank the representative of
the Syrian Arab Republic there are no
more names inscribed on the list of
speakers the meeting is agend
[Music]
a